h1. Prietary

Prietary is the tool for employees who care about their company to make the company a better place.

Built by and property of Phil Garber.  

Built with Rails 3.2 backend and views, Mongoid, Devise, AngualrJS components, Bootstrap, and Mist layout theme.  

www.prietary.com
@prietary


Prietary Web Application
==========

Prietary is a web application written in Ruby on Rails

Seeding the DB
----------

To seed the database run the below:

- rake db:seed

in development, mongoid must be running: $ mongod 
in production, the app accesses the Mongo db on MongoHQ.


Developer Environment Setup
----------

A developer environment allows you to run the Prietary application in a Virtual Machine. 
The environment consists of:
 
  - CentOS 6.4
  - Ruby 1.9.3
  - Rails 3.2.14
  - MongoDB Server 2.4.5

Further, the developer environment is configured to use NFS to share this git checkout directory with your host machine and the guest virtual machine.  Changes made in your IDE to the host git checkout will be reflected automatically in the guest virtual machine.


Steps to bring up the Virtual Machine (VM) and start Rails
-----------
1) Download Vagrant from www.vagrantup.com ( I have version 1.6.2 but newest should be fine)
2) download VirtualBox from Oracle: https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads (I have version 4.3.12 but newest should be fine)
3) clone the repo to your local machine: https://github.com/pgarber/BUv1

4) go to BUv1 folder (contains lots of folders & files: app/, config/, devel-env/, Vagrantfile, etc. do 
5) $ vagrant up
   it installs for 20 or 30 minutes
6) $ vagrant ssh
7) [vagrant@prietary ~]$ cd /vagrant     # /vagrant is the folder that is shared between your local machine and the VirtualBox
8) [vagrant@prietary vagrant]$ ls     # verify that app/, config/, devel-env/, etc is there.  
9) [vagrant@prietary vagrant]$ sudo su -   # have to run as superuser
10) [root@prietary ~]# cd /vagrant
11) [root@prietary vagrant]# bundle install     # installs ruby gems for 10 minutes or so
12) [root@prietary vagrant]# rails -v     # get Rails 3.2.14 - shows that rails is installed
13) [root@prietary vagrant]# rake db:seed    
14) [root@prietary vagrant]# rails server   # this starts the Ruby on Rails server

go to browser on same machine.  Application should render at http://172.31.2.50:3000


Halt/Shutdown the VM
-----------

 A running VM consumes resources on your machine.  When you are finished with the VM you have 3 choices.   
 $ 'vagrant suspend' * Suspend and it can quickly be brought back up with $ vagrant up

 $ 'vagrant halt' * Halt it, allowing it to be resumed later
  
 $ 'vagrant destroy' * Destroy it and it’s deleted
  

